In this lesson we will look at dynamic actor creation.
The so called spawn. For this we need an additional actor. Let's call it hub.
It will contain the logic for creating our BaseGeometry actors. Let's start with him.
Add a new C ++ class. We inherit from the actor. We call our new class GeometryHubActor.
And click on the create class button.
So, our class is created, the class that will be responsible for creating BaseGeometry actors, our hub.
Let's get down to writing some code.
First, let's get a pointer to the game world - world.
This object has a spawn function. Remember that every author has a GetWorld function
that returns a pointer to the global game world object. We check that our pointer is not null.
The spawn function of the actor is called SpawnActor.
With a capital letter. World is underlined by a red squiggly line in Visual Studio.
Visual Studio in this way tells us that we need to include a header file, where the UWorld type is declared.
Add #include "Engine / World.h" to the top of the .cpp file and look at the actor's spawn function.
This function is overloaded. There are several options for how we can spawn an actor.
Some of these functions are boilerplate, some are not. But the meaning is more or less the same for all of them.
First, we need to specify the class of the actor that we want to spawn. Next are the transformation parameters:
position in the world, rotation and, at the very end, there is a special structure called FActorSpawnParameters.
It specifies additional spawn settings. We will not consider it now.
Leave it as default. We will return to it in further sections.
We can call this function with just one parameter - the actor class that we need to spawn.
In this case, the transformation matrix will be unit. The actor will spawn at the origin
with zero rotations and with a unit scale.
Let's create a property GeometryClass in the header file, in the protected section.
Let's specify the EditAnywhere specifier in the property macro.
To declare a pointer to a class in unreal, there is a special template called TSubclassOf
The parameter of this template must be specified directly with the class.
We will spawn a BaseGeometryActor, so we pass this type to the template
and call it propertyGeometryClass. We will very soon see how something looks like in the editor, in the details panel.
In fact, TSubclassOf will filter out all the available classes of the engine
and in the property it will be possible to set only the BaseGeometryActor class itself
or the class that inherits from it.
For educational purposes, let's create an additional property. With the first one, we'll see how to set any available class.
The base type of a class in unreal is called UClass. We create a pointer to it and call property simply Class.
And with the help of the second property, let's see how to pass a pointer to an existing object on the stage.
Let's call property GeometryObject and now we'll see in the editor how they all differ.
We also need to specify the BaseGeometryActor header file. Let's do it.
We compile the project.
The editor started. Let's find our hub class in the C ++ classes directory. We throw it on the stage
and go to the details panel. In the details panel, we can see that our three properties are displayed:
GeometryClass, Class and GeometryObject. Let's first click on the property class, on the combobox. A list
with all available classes of the engine opens . Using this property, we can create an object of absolutely any class.
Next, if we click on the GeometryClass combobox. We have specified this property as TSubclassOf <ABaseGeometryActor>
and we see that all classes are filtered and we can
only select from the main class and its blueprint inheritor. And the third property allows you to set a
pointer to an object of the BaseGeometryActor class, which is on the stage. We see that there is
a BaseGeometryActor2 object on the scene . We can specify it through this property and
then somehow use this object in the code. So, we figured out how our three properties differ.
The main advantage of the TSubclassOf template is that it filters all classes available to us
and we don't have to worry that someone will set the wrong class to a given property.
Let's tweak our BP_BaseGeometryActor class a bit, which we'll spawn now.
If you click on the property's magnifying glass button, the content browser will go to the directory where this class is located
and highlight it. Let's set up our blueprint. In the previous lectures, we dragged the actor onto the stage
and set up its property directly from the object: mesh, material.
We can also do this directly in the blueprint class, that is, customize the default appearance.
To do this, let's set up some static mesh.
If the content is not visible, click on view options -> show engine content and set, for example, a cube.
Also let's assign some material, set BaseColor.
We start the game. The cube has spawned. Its transformation is single. It is located at the point (0, 0, 0) of our scene.
Let's go back to visual studio.
Let's improve our code. The SpawnActor function besides accepting some parameters, it also returns a
pointer to the actor. We can use the template version of this function.
Pass ABaseGeometryActor as a template parameter. As a result, a function is created that returns a
pointer to the ABaseGeometryActor type. Thanks to this, we will not need to do type conversion,
that is, cast an object of the AActor class to an object of the ABaseGeometryActor class. We immediately have a pointer to
an object of our type. Let's create a transformation object and set this transformation to the actor on spawn.
The FTransform class has many different constructors.
We will use a constructor that takes an FRotator object as the first parameter
, which is responsible for the rotation angles. You can pass three 0s to the FRotator constructor,
or you can use the ZeroRotator constant, in which, in fact, this has already been done for us.
In the second parameter of the FTransform constructor, we pass the desired world position for the actor.
To do this, we use an object of the FVector type and specify some coordinate in the constructor.
Let it be (0, 300, 300). So, the transformation object is ready, and in order for the actor to have this transformation
on spawn, we need to pass this object as the second argument to the SpawnActor function.
Let's make our scene more fun, create more than one actor, but 10. To do this, use the for loop
Move the actor creation code to the loop body and, so that all the actors do not poop at one point,
we will change the Y coordinate depending on the loop index. Moreover, we now
have a pointer to the object we created and we can change something in this object.
Let's open the BaseGeometryActor header file.
Let's change the settings that are in the GeometryData object. This class member is
in the protected section, so we need to make a public setter function for this structure in
order to change its value. We create the SetGeometryData function. The function will accept an object of type FGeometryData.
We assign the value of the Data parameter to the member of the GeometryData class.
I will leave the body of the function in the header file, we will not create it in .cpp
In general, I admit that small functions, mainly setter / getter, are entirely in the .h file.
Now we can modify the GeometryData object. Let's call the SetGeometryData function we created.
Let's pass the Data object to this function and let's create it.
Let's, for example, change the MoveType field.
The type of movement will be set randomly each time.
To do this, you can use a special function found in FMath. It's called RandBool.
This function will randomly generate true or false.
And for example, if this is generated, let's set MovementType :: Static
For convenience, we'll use the ternary operator?
And if the function returned false, then set MovementType :: Sin
Compile the project.
We start the game. According to our code, 10 BaseGeometry actors were generated.
Some of them are moving, some are not. It depends on the RandBool function.
Let's fix one thing. We forgot to check the Geometry pointer for nullptr.
The object may not be created, for example, if you run out of memory.
Let's now see how the SpawnActor function works. Let's open the .cpp file of the BaseGeometryActor class.
When an object is created, the constructor of the BaseGeometryActor class is called and then immediately BeginPlay.
As we remember, in our BeginPlay we initialize the InitialLocation variable.
When an actor is created, a transformation is set, which we pass to the SpawnActor function.
And when we call the GetActorLocation function on the BeginPlay, we get the coordinate that we passed with the
FTransform object. We cannot change the default color, since we call SetGeometryData
on the created object after calling the BeginPlay function. That is, by default, our color will be
black for all actors. There is another way to spawn an actor with a deferred call to the BeginPlay function.
Let's look at it. First, let's copy the entire cycle. And spawn 10 more actors.
The only thing is, let's change the Z coordinate with it. Set it to 700.
The function that allows the deferred call to BeginPlay is called SpawnActorDeffered. Let's call her.
This function differs from the usual SpawnActor function in that when called, an object is created
and only the class constructor is called, but the BeginPlay function will not be called.
Thanks to this, we have the opportunity to configure some
parameters of the actor and call the BeginPlay function manually.
Let's also pass in the Data object the color that we want the actor to have by default.
Generate a random color by calling the MakeRandomColor function.
So, we created an object, the class constructor was called. Next, we have set up the GeometryData of our
class, and now we need to manually call the BeginPlay function.
This is done using an actor function called FinishSpawning.
This function also needs to specify a transformation. It won't change for us, so we pass
the GeometryTransform object. We compile the project.
Press play and see that the top row of actors spawned immediately with colors.
Thus, thanks to the SpawnActorDeffered function, we can defer the call to the BeginPlay function
and change any parameters that need to be changed before the call to the BeginPlay function.
Next, let's do the following. In the hub class, we will completely customize the GeometryData for the actors
that we want to spawn. For this we need an additional structure in the GeometryHubActor class.
Copy the structure code, transfer the GeometryHubActor header file.
Let's call the structure GeometryPayload.
The structure will have three fields. The first is the class we want to spawn.
The second will be responsible for GeometryData.
The third will be responsible for the initial transformation. Let's call the property InitialTransform.
Let's create a property of type FGeometryPayload in the GeometryHubActor class.
Name the property GeometryPayload.
Let's make the property an array of objects. To do this, we will use an unreal engine type
called TArray. This is a container class. It takes the type of the stored data
as a template parameter . We are passing in the type FGeometryPayload. In our course, we will work with this
container often. I will attach a link to the documentation for the lecture.
It will be possible to read what operations we can perform with this container.
Add the letter s to the end of the name.
Let's spawn the actors based on the information in the GeometryPayloads array.
We will use the range version of the for loop. Let's go through all the elements of the array and spawn the actors.
We'll spawn the actors by calling the SpawnActorDeffered function.
We can copy the line from the previous cycle.
Change the function parameters to the variables of our Payload object.
The second parameter is Payload.InitialTransform.
Check the Geometry object for nullptr.
If the object is not null, then we call the SetGeometryData function.
Pass the Data variable of the Payload object as a parameter.
Finish creating the actor by calling the FinishSpawning function.
We pass InitialTransform into it.
So, our code is ready. Let's run editor.
The first thing we will do with you is rename the BaseGeometryActor blueprint
to CubeGeometryActor, because we have set the default mesh for this blueprint - a cube.
Press Ctrl + W, copy the blueprint. Let's call it SphereGeometryActor.
Set the sphere as the mesh in this class.
Compile, save, close.
Go to GeometryHubActor. We see that the property has been created GeometryPayloads, which is an array.
The property of the array in the editor has a plus button, which allows you to add elements to this array.
The element in our array is GeometryPayload. We see all displayed properties of this structure.
Set BP_Cube as a class. Also let's change the GeometryData. Let's set some green color.
Let's set the timer that changes color to some high value. Let it be 20.
And also let's set the location in the world where we want our actor to spawn.
You can also change the rotation of our actor. Let it be 45 degrees on all axes. Click play.
Our new actor has spawned in the world, all of its parameters correspond to what we indicated.
Let's add one more element to our array.
Press the plus button.
Set the GeometryClass to a sphere. Let it move sine by default.
Also change the color. Let it be white. Let's make the TimerRate large - 50 and change the initial position.
We start the game. Our sphere has spawned and it is moving.
For each of the spawns that we did in this tutorial, I created an additional function DoActorSpawn 1, 2 and 3.
Let's also delete two properties in the GeometryHubActor: Class and GeometryObject.
We won't need them. We created them purely for educational purposes, and in the BaseGeometryActor class, let's fix
all the places where we do not check pointers to nullptr. The first is the HandleMovement function.
Let's check if the object of the game world exists or not. In general, if the pointer to the global game object is null,
then something is clearly going wrong in our game. And in general, it can no longer continue,
but it is better to observe a uniform coding style.
We do the same with the GEngine object.
And the last place. We have not checked the pointer to BaseMesh.
If the pointer to it is null, then immediately exit the function.
That's all in this lesson.